README.md, before:

Leaflet.VectorTileLayer
=======================

This module provides a [Leaflet][L] layer that displays [vector tiles][VT].
It is very similar to [`Leaflet.VectorGrid`][LVG].

In contrast to `VectorGrid`, this class has been designed as much as
possible in terms of Leaflet's public API. This makes it more likely to
continue working with future versions of Leaflet.

The biggest difference to `VectorGrid` is the [styling](#styling).
`VectorTileLayer` also supports two options `min/maxDetailZoom` which are
subtly different from `VectorGrid`'s `min/maxNativeZoom`. Both provide the
possibility to specify a range of zoom levels that offer an optimal
trade-off between detail and size. When using the `native` variants, tiles
above or below the zoom range are scaled, changing the stroke weight. The
`detail` settings offer the same trade-off while still rendering the tiles
at the correct zoom levels, meaning stroke weight is visually consistent
across all zoom levels.


Use
---

Loads vector tiles from a URL template like

    https://{s}.example.com/tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}.pbf

The URL template also supports the undocumented `{-y}` option for
»[inverted Y][Y]« if the map's [coordinate reference system][CRS] is finite
(the default).

This pacakge can be used as an ES6 module.

```js
import vectorTileLayer from 'leaflet-vector-tile-layer';

const tileLayer = vectorTileLayer(url, options);
```

The AMD build comes with all dependencies included. If imported as an ES6
module, you will need to make the dependencies available to your build
system, for example:

```sh
$ npm install @mapbox/vector-tile pbf
```

See this package's development dependencies for version information.


Styling
-------

The main difference to `VectorGrid` is that `VectorTileLayer` takes a
different approach to styling. Whereas `VectorGrid` requires you to specify
styling for a fixed set of vector tile layer names in advance, this class
allows you to specify a single style for all layers irrespective of their
names. This is particularly useful when specifying a function which is
called with the rendered feature, the layer name and the current zoom
level. This way, clients can react dynamically to layer names or ignore
them altogether.

Another feature not supported by `VectorGrid` is a `setStyle()` call which
allows changing the styling of the entire layer. This can be used to
highlight certain features, for example.

For compatibility, support for the `vectorTileLayerStyles` option and
`set/resetFeatureStyle()` method is also provided.

Another added feature of `VectorTileLayer` is a `getBounds()` function.
After the `load` event, it returns the bounds occupied by the features on
all currently loaded tiles.

`VectorTileLayer` supports all options provided by [`GridLayer`][GL].

Feature objects created by `VectorTileLayer` have a `layerName` property
which holds the name of the .pbf layer in which they were encoded.

Additionally, the following options are provided:

```js
const url = 'https://{s}.example.com/tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}.pbf';
const options = {
        // A function that will be used to decide whether to include a
        // feature or not. If specified, it will be passed the vector-tile
        // feature, the layer name and the zoom level. The default is to
        // include all features.
        filter, // default undefined

        // Specify zoom range in which tiles are loaded. Tiles will be
        // rendered from the same data for Zoom levels outside the range.
        minDetailZoom, // default undefined
        maxDetailZoom, // default undefined

        // Styling options. For polylines or polygons, these are
        // `L.PathOptions`. For points, the `icon` property supplies an
        // `L.Icon` to determine the appearance.  If this property is a
        // function, it will be passed the vector-tile feature(which contains
        // the layer name), and the zoom level as parameters.
        style, // default undefined

        // This works like the same option for `Leaflet.VectorGrid`.
        vectorTileLayerStyles, // default undefined

        // The following optional function, if provided, will be passed a vector-tile
        // feature, pixels-per-tile and style object to create each feature layer: 
        featureToLayer,
};

const layer = vectorTileLayer(url, options);
```

The style can be updated at any time using the `setStyle()` method.

```js
layer.setStyle({ weight: 3 });
```

All omitted options will be substituted by the default options for
[`L.Polyline`][PL] or [`L.Polygon`][PG], as appropriate.


Interactive Polyline Styling
----------------------------

For interactive features only, the special path option `interactionWeight`
will be used to create a transparent line overlying the underlying visible
line, with the given weight.

Events
------

Events attached to this layer provide access to the vector-tile `feature`
and the `layerName` through their `layer` attribute. For compatibility with
`VectorGrid`, the feature's `properties` are also made directly available.


Installing and building
-----------------------

You can install this package using

```sh
$ npm install leaflet-vector-tile-layer
```

It can be built by

```sh
$ npm run build
```


Limitations
-----------

At this time, only SVG rendering and vector tiles in [`protobuf`][PBF]
format are supported, but support for other renderers or formats may be
added through options in the future.


[CRS]:  https://leafletjs.com/reference-1.7.1.html#crs
[GL]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#gridlayer
[L]:    http://leafletjs.com/
[LVG]:  https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.VectorGrid
[PBF]:  https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/
[PG]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#polygon
[PL]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#polyline
[VT]:   https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec
[Y]:    https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet/issues/4284

Commit message:

Add generic `hidden` style option to control visibility at a fine level.

README.md, after:

Leaflet.VectorTileLayer
=======================

This module provides a [Leaflet][L] layer that displays [vector tiles][VT].
It is very similar to [`Leaflet.VectorGrid`][LVG].

In contrast to `VectorGrid`, this class has been designed as much as
possible in terms of Leaflet's public API. This makes it more likely to
continue working with future versions of Leaflet.

The biggest difference to `VectorGrid` is the [styling](#styling).
`VectorTileLayer` also supports two options `min/maxDetailZoom` which are
subtly different from `VectorGrid`'s `min/maxNativeZoom`. Both provide the
possibility to specify a range of zoom levels that offer an optimal
trade-off between detail and size. When using the `native` variants, tiles
above or below the zoom range are scaled, changing the stroke weight. The
`detail` settings offer the same trade-off while still rendering the tiles
at the correct zoom levels, meaning stroke weight is visually consistent
across all zoom levels.


Use
---

Loads vector tiles from a URL template like

    https://{s}.example.com/tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}.pbf

The URL template also supports the undocumented `{-y}` option for
»[inverted Y][Y]« if the map's [coordinate reference system][CRS] is finite
(the default).

This pacakge can be used as an ES6 module.

```js
import vectorTileLayer from 'leaflet-vector-tile-layer';

const tileLayer = vectorTileLayer(url, options);
```

The AMD build comes with all dependencies included. If imported as an ES6
module, you will need to make the dependencies available to your build
system, for example:

```sh
$ npm install @mapbox/vector-tile pbf
```

See this package's development dependencies for version information.


Styling
-------

The main difference to `VectorGrid` is that `VectorTileLayer` takes a
different approach to styling. Whereas `VectorGrid` requires you to specify
styling for a fixed set of vector tile layer names in advance, this class
allows you to specify a single style for all layers irrespective of their
names. This is particularly useful when specifying a function which is
called with the rendered feature, the layer name and the current zoom
level. This way, clients can react dynamically to layer names or ignore
them altogether.

Another feature not supported by `VectorGrid` is a `setStyle()` call which
allows changing the styling of the entire layer. This can be used to
highlight certain features, for example.

For compatibility, support for the `vectorTileLayerStyles` option and
`set/resetFeatureStyle()` method is also provided.

Another added feature of `VectorTileLayer` is a `getBounds()` function.
After the `load` event, it returns the bounds occupied by the features on
all currently loaded tiles.

`VectorTileLayer` supports all options provided by [`GridLayer`][GL].

Feature objects created by `VectorTileLayer` have a `layerName` property
which holds the name of the .pbf layer in which they were encoded.

Additionally, the following options are provided:

```js
const url = 'https://{s}.example.com/tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}.pbf';
const options = {
        // A function that will be used to decide whether to include a
        // feature or not. If specified, it will be passed the vector-tile
        // feature, the layer name and the zoom level. The default is to
        // include all features.
        filter, // default undefined

        // Specify zoom range in which tiles are loaded. Tiles will be
        // rendered from the same data for Zoom levels outside the range.
        minDetailZoom, // default undefined
        maxDetailZoom, // default undefined

        // Styling options. For polylines or polygons, these are
        // `L.PathOptions`. For points, the `icon` property supplies an
        // `L.Icon` to determine the appearance.  If this property is a
        // function, it will be passed the vector-tile feature(which contains
        // the layer name), and the zoom level as parameters.
        style, // default undefined

        // This works like the same option for `Leaflet.VectorGrid`.
        vectorTileLayerStyles, // default undefined

        // The following optional function, if provided, will be passed a vector-tile
        // feature, pixels-per-tile and style object to create each feature layer: 
        featureToLayer,
};

const layer = vectorTileLayer(url, options);
```

The style can be updated at any time using the `setStyle()` method.

```js
layer.setStyle({ weight: 3 });
```

All omitted options will be substituted by the default options for
[`L.Polyline`][PL] or [`L.Polygon`][PG], as appropriate.


Feature-level Visibility Control
--------------------------------

The style option `hidden` permits any feature to be hidden by setting the SVG
attribute `visibility` to `hidden`.

Interactive Polyline Styling
----------------------------

For interactive features only, the special path option `interactionWeight`
will be used to create a transparent line overlying the underlying visible
line, with the given weight.

Events
------

Events attached to this layer provide access to the vector-tile `feature`
and the `layerName` through their `layer` attribute. For compatibility with
`VectorGrid`, the feature's `properties` are also made directly available.


Installing and building
-----------------------

You can install this package using

```sh
$ npm install leaflet-vector-tile-layer
```

It can be built by

```sh
$ npm run build
```


Limitations
-----------

At this time, only SVG rendering and vector tiles in [`protobuf`][PBF]
format are supported, but support for other renderers or formats may be
added through options in the future.


[CRS]:  https://leafletjs.com/reference-1.7.1.html#crs
[GL]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#gridlayer
[L]:    http://leafletjs.com/
[LVG]:  https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.VectorGrid
[PBF]:  https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/
[PG]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#polygon
[PL]:   http://leafletjs.com/reference-1.0.3.html#polyline
[VT]:   https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec
[Y]:    https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet/issues/4284
